1. Chapter 5 (focus primarily on Sections 5.1–5.2)

a. Who invented the relational data model? When and where did they do their work?
	Ted Codd of IBM Research in 1970 introduced the relational model in a classic paper that quickly caught people's attention becuase of its simplicity and mathematical foundation.

b. Explain the following terms:
relation - The database contains a collection of relations. Informally, each relation resembles a table of values or, to some extent, a flat file of records.

attribute - A column header or the name of a role played by some domain in the relation schema. 

domain - A set of atomic values. Atomic means each value in the domain is indivisible as far as the formal relational model is concerned. A common method of specifying a domain is to specify a data type from which the data values forming the domain are draw. Examples: usa_phone_numbers, grade_point_averages.

n-tuple - An ordered list of n values where each value is an element of the domain or is a special NULL value. 

NULL value - Represents attributes whose values are unknown or do not exist. 

primary key - A candidate key whose values are used to identify tuples in a relation. Primary key attributes are usually underlined.
foreign key - A foreign key is a field (or collection of fields) in one table that uniquely identifies a row of another table or the same table. In simpler words, the 					foreign key is defined in a second table, but it refers to the primary key in the first table.
candidate - A Candidate Key can be any column or a combination of columns that can qualify as unique key in database. There can be multiple Candidate Keys in one table. 				Each Candidate Key can qualify as Primary Key.
super keys - A superkey is a combination of columns that uniquely identifies any row within a relational database management system (RDBMS) table.

referenced and referencing records - Relations that reference other relations through primary and foreign keys.

c. Are tuples in a relation ordered? How about attribute values in a tuple? Explain why or why not.
	Tuples in a relation are not ordered because mathematically, elements of a set/tuple are not ordered. Attributes of a tuple are ordered because they identify the tuple.

d. Can attributes have multiple values in a single n-tuple? Why or why not?


2. Chapter 6 (focus primarily on Sections 6.1–6.2 & 6.4) — Make sure that you know how to:
a. Create tables with specified constraints, including primary/foreign key, not-null, domain and value-check constraints.
b. Use the DML commands: INSERT, DELETE and UPDATE.
c. Distinguish the ON DELETE actions: SET NULL; CASCADE.