1. Read Section 30.1:
	a. Name and explain the for kinds of control measures required for database security.
	1) Access conrol - the DBMS must include provisions for restricting access to the database system as a whole. This function is called access control, is handled by creating user accounts and passwords to control the login process by the DBMS.
	2) Inference control - the attempt to prevent users to infer classified information form rightfully accessible chunks of information with lower classification
	3) Flow control - prevents information from flowing in such a way that it reaches unauthorized users. 
	4) Data encryption - used to protect sensitive data (ie credit card numbers) that is transmitted via some type of communications network

	a. Compare and contrast information security and information privacy.
	Information security - refers to many aspects of protecting a system from unauthorized use, including authentication of users, information encryption, access control, firewall policies and intrusion detection
	Information privacy - privacy goes beyond security. It examines how well the use of personal information that the system acquires about a user conforms to the explicit or implicit assumptions regarding that use. From end user perspective, privacy can be considered from two different perspectives: preventing storage of personal information vs ensuring appropriate use of personal information
	
2. Read Imperva’s Top 5 Database Security Threats.
	a. Name and explain the security threats discussed in the article.
		1. Excessive, inappropriate, and unused privileges  - when one is granted db privileges that exceed the requirements of their job function, one can abuse these priviliges. Ie a HR rep could look up someone's salary when their job is to only update time-off information.
		2. Privilege abuse  - Users misues priviliege service accounts to access sensitive data directly, by bypassing the application's interface
		3. Insufficient web application security - most organizations rely on apps to interface with customers. There are many types of attacks on apps that can expose data. Two most common are SQL injection and Web Shell. 
		4. Weak audit trails - The failure to monitor for both security and compliance anomalies and collect the appropriate audit details of database activity represents a serious organizational risk at many levels.
		5. Unsecured storage media - Numerous security breaches have involved the theft or incidental exposure of database backup disks and tapes. Taking the appropriate measures to protect backup copies of sensitive data is not only a data security best practice, but also mandated by many regulations.
	
