Chapter 1

a. Compare and contrast data, databases, database (management) systems and information systems.
	data - recordable facts
	databases - collection of structured, often massive, persistant and related data
	database (management) systems - A computerized system that enables users to create and maintain a database. DBMS -> DDL/DML. These are systems that define, construct, 		manipulate and share a database among various users and applications. 
	information systems - bring value, general systems. A combination of hardware, software, infrastructure and trained personnel organized to facilitate planning, 			control, coordination, and decision making in an organization.

b. Compare and contrast database systems with the following, using the main characteristics of the database approach in your discussion.
	data structures and algorithms - A data structure is an arrangment of data in a computer's memory. Examples are arrays, queues, lists and trees. An algorithm is a list of steps to insert new data, search for data, change existing data or delete data. Algorithms usually apply directly to specific data structures.
	traditional file systems - A computer system that stores retrives data in an organized fashion. File systems hide storage and implementation details that are technical and not of interest to most database users. A common form of a file system is a hard disk drive.

c. Identify the stakeholders of database systems.
	Database administrators, database designers, end users (people who query the database - casual, naive, sophisticated, standalone)

Chapter 2

a. Explain the significance of the categories of data models. Which type of model is displayed in Figure 2.1?
	client module - designed so that it will run on a mobile device, user workstation or personal computer. Typcically, applications programs and user interfaces that 			access the database run in the client module. 
	server module - handles data storage, access, search and other functions.

	Figure 2.1 is a server model. 

b. Explain the structure and significance of the three-schema architecture.
	The goal of the three-schema architecture is to seperate the user applications from the physical database. Schemas can be defined at the following three levels:
		1) The Internal level has an internal schema, which describes the physical storage structure of the database. The internal schema uses a physical data model and describes details of data storage and access paths to the database.
		2) The conceptual level has a conceptual schema, which describes the structure of the whole database for a community of users. It hides details of data structures and concentrates on describing data types, relationships, user operations and constraints. 
		3) The external or view level includes a number of external schemas or user views, which describe the part of the database that a particular user group is interested in and hides the rest of the database from that user group. 
	The three schemas are only descriptions of data, the actual data is stored at the physical level only. This desgin is very applicable in the design of DBMSs.

c. Explain the tiers used in a typical web-based information system.
	The typical web-based information system used a three-tier architecture. It adds an intermediate layer between the client and the database server. This intermediate layer is called the application server or the Web server. This server runs programs and stores business rules that are used to acess data from the database server. It can also provide security by checking a client's credentials before accessing the web server. The intermediate layer accepts requests from the client, processes them and sends database queries to the database server.