Mark Davis
guide 8
CS342

1. Read Sections 10.1, 10.4.1 & 26.1.1–2:
		a. Name the three basic approaches to database programming.
			1. Embedding database commands in a general purpose programming language. So database statements are embedded into the host programming language.
			2. Using a library of database functions or classes. Al ibrary of functions is made available to the host programming language for databse calls. 
			3. Designing a brand new language. A database programming language is designed from scratch to be compatable with the database model and query language. 
		b. Explain the concepts of:
			i. impedance mismatch
			Term used to refer to the problems that occur because of differences between the database model and the programming language model.
			ii. stored procedures
			Procedures or functions that are stored and executed by the DBMS at the database server
			iii. Triggers
			A technique for specifying cetain types of active rules. In the ECA model, a rule has three components: events, conditions and actions.
			
			
2. Read Server-Side Programming: PL/SQL and Java.. Focus on server-side programming, PL/SQL and triggers; skip the section on “Overview of Java in Oracle Database”.
		a. Compare and contrast:
			i. procedural vs non-procedural languages.
			Procedural - the data the language is operating on is specified but not the operations or the manner in which the operations are carried out
			Non-procedural - most statement execution dependson previous or subsequent statements on control structures, such as loops or conditional branches that are not available in sql. 
			ii. client-side vs server-side database programming.
			Client-side - used to embed SQL statements in applications written in procedural languages such as C, C++, Java
			Server-side - develops data logic that resides in the database. An application can invoke stored subprograms written in PL/SQL or one can use a trigger to invoke a subprogram upon an event, action or condition
		b. Explain why one would want to do server-side programming using PL/SQL.
		Server-side programming is in the database so the functionality can be deployed anywhere. The database - not the application - determines the best way to perform tasks on a given OS. 
		c. For each of the following code segments, identify the type of the database object and explain what it does.
				i. CREATE PROCEDURE limited_count (limit IN integer) AS
BEGIN
  FOR i IN 1..limit LOOP
      dbms_output.put_line(i);
  END LOOP;
END;
			
				This subprogram prints out each line of a relation.
				 
				i. BEGIN
  dbms_output.put_line('Hello, PL/SQL!');
END;
			
				This subprogram calls the above procedure.
				 
				i. CREATE TRIGGER log_trigger
  BEFORE INSERT OR UPDATE OF lastName ON Person
  FOR each row
BEGIN
  dbms_output.put_line('Hello, name change!');
END;
	
				This subprogram is triggered each time there is an update or insert operation and outputs a message for each operation.
